#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass kuthesis
\begin_preamble
%%\usepackage{latexsym}
\usepackage{graphicx}

%%\usepackage{psfig}
%%\usepackage{color}

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% User specified LaTeX commands.
\usepackage{ragged2e}
\RaggedRight
%\setlength{\parindent}{1.5 em}
\usepackage{fancyvrb}
\DefineVerbatimEnvironment{code}{Verbatim}{fontsize=\small}
\DefineVerbatimEnvironment{example}{Verbatim}{fontsize=\small}
\newcommand{\ignore}[1]{}

\usepackage{fvextra}
\usepackage{pstricks}
\usepackage{pstricks-add}
\usepackage{epsfig}
\usepackage{pst-grad} % For gradients
\usepackage{pst-plot} % For axes
\usepackage[space]{grffile} % For spaces in paths
\usepackage{etoolbox} % For spaces in paths
\makeatletter % For spaces in paths
\patchcmd\Gread@eps{\@inputcheck#1 }{\@inputcheck"#1"\relax}{}{}
\makeatother
\usepackage{auto-pst-pdf}

\usepackage{nccmath}
\usepackage{setspace}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\master ../thesis-ku.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "times" "Times New Roman"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\listings_params "frame=none,xleftmargin=2pt,stepnumber=1,numbers=left,numbersep=5pt,numberstyle={\ttfamily\tiny\color[gray]{0.3}},belowcaptionskip={\bigskipamount},captionpos=b,escapeinside={*'}{'*},language=Haskell,tabsize=2,emphstyle={\bf},commentstyle={\it},stringstyle={\mdseries\rmfamily},showspaces=false,keywordstyle={\bfseries\rmfamily},columns=flexible,basicstyle={\small\sffamily},showstringspaces=false,morecomment={[l]\%}"
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This manuscript has explored Lenses in multiple ways from the elementary
 mathematical definitions to the Haskell representations.
 The topic of extending this concept to Remote Procedure Calls was established
 both in theory and in implementation, with respect to the Remote Monad.
 This resulted in the contribution of a method of designing the Remote Lens
 DSL and an evaluation if Remote Lenses are indeed actually Lenses.
 The method of design did remain entirely focused on bringing rigidity from
 the host language of Haskell to the client language of Javascript, giving
 a successful means to lens into Remote Objects.
 While the Remote Lens was implemented without issue as a DSL, it was not
 able to hold up under scrutiny.
 This DSL is a convenient method but it is not a implementation of a generically
 formed Lens as was hoped.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In future works, exploration of the difference between Remote Procedure
 Calls and database systems such as mySQL would be highlighted, as known
 from personal work done in scaffolding this Remote Lens DSL over mySQL,
 this was ultimately a far worse implementation of the great work already
 done in the field.
 Highlights from RPCs in a simpler bridge environment with Python was surprising
ly not a strong case for the guarantees of this Remote Lens interface.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There is the potential for more hopeful work, given the ability to implement
 
\emph on
Traversals
\emph default
 with the Remote Monad for the Remote Lens DSL.
 Since potential exists for some finer subset of APIs such that a full implement
ation of richer libraries of lensing becomes possible.
 However, the behavior of Remote Lenses are only Observably Equivalent and
 are heavily dependent on trusting the programmer of the DSL to ensure proper
 results.
 Which leads to additional future work, in proving Behavior Equivalence
 from the verification of the suspicion that a properly defined RemoteView
 and RemoteSet can model View and Set.
 There are many paths to be taken forward, that will hopefully be explored
 to enrich the literature on this newly defined topic of Remote Lenses.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
